hello and welcome back to another video
Louis from trade options with Mead
outcome here in this video you will
learn everything you need to know about
covered calls a very simple yet very
effective options trading strategy let
me start by presenting the payoff
diagram of a covered call as you can see
on this payoff diagram a covered call is
a slightly bullish to neutral trading
strategy to set up the covered call
strategy you need to buy 100 shares of
the underlying asset stock for every
call option that you sell on it so if
you sell one call option you need to buy
100 shares of the underlying stock the
red cross is the strike price of the
short call and the green cross is the
underlying assets trading price right
below that you can see the break-even
point the max profit is achieved if the
underlying assets price rises up or
above the strike price with the short
call if the underlying assets price
falls the cover call will end with a
loss
this means a covered call is a defined
profit and undefined risk strategy or
theoretically it's not an undefined risk
strategy because the stock's price can't
go below zero but it's do a pretty big
loss if the stock goes all the way down
to zero now let me move on to how to
calculate the profit and loss of a
covered call to calculate the max profit
you need to add the strike price of the
short call to the premium collected by
the short call and from that you
subtract the underlying trailing price
when entering the long stock position
the break-even point can be calculated
by subtracting the premium received by
selling the call option from the
underlyings purchase price
to clarify this let me present you a
short example let's say you put on a
covert coal position by buying 100
shares of the underlying stock at $100
and you sell a one call option with the
strike price of 105 for two dollars
this means the max profit of this cover
call is $2 which is the premier received
plus the strike price which is $105 -
$100 which is the price you paid for
each on share of the underlying stock
this means the max profit is $7 per
share as this example was with 100
shares this would be $700 now let me
show you how to calculate the break-even
point of this position real fast you
simply subtract $2 which is the premium
received from $100 which is $98 so this
position breaks even if the stock price
drops down below to $98 now let me move
on to when to trade a covered call to
make this as clear as possible I want to
compare the payoff diagram of a covered
call to that of a long stock position so
the payoff diagram at the top is that of
a covered call and the one below that is
the payoff diagram of a long stock
position so as you can see with this
blue line the break-even point of the
long stock position would end with a
profit for the coracle position in fact
if the stocks price will rise slightly
or fall a covered call will always
outperform a long stock position however
if the stock price rises a lot the long
stock position would be better this
means if you expect the underlying
assets price to skyrocket you should not
put on a covered color however if you're
a neutral to slightly bullish the
covered cold position would be
beneficial
there are two ways to put on the cover
cold version either you put it on as a
completely new position where you buy
stock and sell the covered cool or is
simply sell a call option against a
stock that you already own this means
covered cools can be done on already
existing stock positions but once again
if you are very bullish on your current
stock position you should likely not put
a covered call on it
next up let us compare in the money
versus at the money versus out of the
money covered calls if the strike price
of the short cool is below the
underlying assets trading price it is
considered in the money if it is right
at or near the underlying straining
price the option would be considered at
the money and if the strike price of the
short call is above the underlyings
trading price it would be considered out
of the money
each of these three have some advantages
and disadvantages as you can see on this
graphic that I created and in the money
covered cool offers the most downward
protection this means then in the money
covered call would be the most
conservative of these three options and
out of the money covered cool offers the
least
downward protection however on the flip
side the out of the money covered cool
offers the greatest profit potential
whereas the in the money covered cool
offers the least profit potential the
add the money covered call is right in
between these two to sum things up and
in the money covered call has the
highest probability of profit however it
the smallest profit in size and out of
the money covered call as the lowest
probability of profit but the biggest
profit when it comes to size and at the
money covered Cole is right in between
so which of these is best really depends
on your risk appetite
if you sell more than one cool option
you could actually also combine and in
the money and an out of the money
covered cool to form a hybrid of these
two now let me move on to presenting the
Greeks of a covered coal position as a
covered cool only consists of a short
coal when it comes to options we can
disregard the long cool long put and
short put row of this table furthermore
we can disregard row because it's only
important for very long-term options the
Delta of the short coal position is
negative however the Delta of a long
stock position is very positive this
means the net Delta of a covered coal
position with the stock is positive in
other words is still a hope for an
increase in the underlying assets price
just not an as big increase as you would
without the covered call on it next up
Vega represents the impact of implied
volatility on the position a negative
Vega means that a short coal position
would profit from a drop in implied
volatility so a covered coal position
would profit from decreasing implied
volatility this means it's best to enter
a covered coal position when implied
volatility is high to find out if
implied volatility is high you could use
IV rank if IV rank is over 50 implied
volatility is relatively high theta is
the Greek that represents time decay the
positive theta means that this position
profits from time passing in other words
a covered cool profits every day from
time passing by the gamma of a covered
call is negative last but not least let
me give you a few tips for trading
covered calls
first of all covered cores are a great
strategy to finance your stock positions
you can do it more than once on existing
stock positions
so if you don't expect a stock to
increase dramatically over the next few
months you could easily sell one or
multiple covered cores on it as soon as
one covered coal expires you could just
sell another one this can move your
break-even point of the overall stock
position down dramatically however it's
important to have the right directional
assumption you should neither be very
bullish nor bearish when trading a
cupboard call if you expect the
underlying price to go up dramatically
don't sell a cupboard call on it and if
you expect the underlying price to go
down it would probably be better to sell
the stock position than to sell a
covered call on it furthermore covered
calls are a great strategy to transition
from stock trading to options trading
cover cools combined stocks and options
into one strategy the next step is to
trade strategies with only options in
addition to that it's best to trade
covered calls when implied volatility is
high because they profit from decreasing
IV so once again covered calls our best
traded when IV rank is over 50 if the
underlying assets price moves above the
strike price of the short call option if
the short call option will be considered
in the money if assured option is in the
money there's a risk of getting assigned
if your short cool gets assigned you
will have to sell your stock for the
strike price the risk of getting
assigned increases dramatically when you
get closer to expiration so if you want
to decrease the risk of getting a sign
I recommend closing any in the money
short call positions at least one week
before expiration like I mentioned
before covered calls can be done on
existing stock positions or as a totally
new position
however they're probably most commonly
used on existing stock positions
furthermore make sure to take in enough
credit for the sale of the call option
if you only take in a few cents of
premium for the call option the trade
won't be worth it last but not least I
just want to say that there actually
exists an opposite strategy of a covered
call it's called a covered put and it
consists of a short put option and a
short stock position however this
strategy isn't nearly as commonly used
as a covered call and that's also one
reason why I didn't cover it in this
video as you need to buy shares of the
underlying asset to trade a covered call
it is actually quite capital intensive
strategy however if you want to trade
something very similar to recovered coal
that requires much less capital I
recommend checking out credit spreads I
actually have a very similar video on
credit spreads so if you want to learn
more about them make sure to check it
out
I will leave a link to it in the
description box below otherwise thanks
so much for watching
a real EOP enjoyed this video make sure
to leave any questions or comments in
the comment section below also make sure
to subscribe if you enjoy content like
this see you in the next video
you